Reorganize the middle sections and do a pass on Chapter 11 (#1054)
browserengineering/book: book/visual-effects.md

        canvas.drawRect(self.rect.makeOffset(0, -scroll), paint)
```

Here the `rect` field needs to become a Skia `Rect` object.

Get rid of the old `Rect` class that was introduced in [Chapter
7](chrome.md) in favor of `skia.Rect`. Everywhere that a `Rect` was
constructed, instead put `skia.Rect.MakeLTRB` (for "make
left-top-right-bottom") or `MakeXYWH` (for "make

> *x*-*y*-width-height"). Everywhere that the sides of the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
x-y-width-height"). Everywhere that the sides of the
```

Author: Don't really know why, but we always italicize *x* and *y*. Probably it is ultimately the typographers who will tell us what to do here.

        self.rect = skia.Rect.MakeLTRB(x1, y1, x2, y2)
```

> To draw an outline, draw a rectangle but set the `Style` parameter of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create an outline, draw a rectangle but set the `Style` parameter of
```

native support for rounded rectangles via `RRect` objects. We can
implement that by converting `DrawRect` to `DrawRRect`:

``` {.python replace=scroll%2c%20/}
class DrawRRect:
    def __init__(self, rect, radius, color):
        self.rect = rect
        self.rrect = skia.RRect.MakeRectXY(rect, radius, radius)
        self.color = color

    def execute(self, scroll, canvas):
        sk_color = parse_color(self.color)
        canvas.drawRRect(self.rrect,
            paint=skia.Paint(Color=sk_color))
```

Then we can draw these rounded rectangles for backgrounds:

``` {.python replace=is_atomic/self.is_atomic()}
class BlockLayout:
    def paint(self):
        if bgcolor != "transparent":
            radius = float(
                self.node.style.get(
                    "border-radius", "0px")[:-2])
            cmds.append(DrawRRect(
                self.self_rect(), radius, bgcolor))
```

Similar changes should be made to `InputLayout`. New shapes, like
rounded rectangles, is one way that Skia is a more advanced
rasterization library than Tk. More broadly, since Skia is also used
by Chromium, we know it has fast, built-in support for all of the

> shapes we might need.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
shapes we might need in a browser.
```

Skia and SDL have just made our browser more complex, but the
low-level control offered by these libraries is important because it

> allows us to optimize commonly interactions like scrolling.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
allows us to optimize common interactions like scrolling.
```

We'll also need to split the browser's `draw` method into three parts:

> - `raster_tab` will raster the page to the `tab_surface`; and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `raster_tab` will raster the page to the `tab_surface`;
```

> - `raster_chrome` will raster the browser chrome to the `chrome_surface`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `raster_chrome` will raster the browser chrome to the `chrome_surface`; and
```

- `draw` will composite the chrome and tab surfaces and copy the

>   result from Skia to SDL;[^why-two-steps]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  result from Skia to SDL.[^why-two-steps]
```

Note the `draw` calls: these copy the `tab_surface` and
`chrome_surface` to the `canvas`, which is bound to `root_surface`.

> The `clipRect` and `translate` call make sure we copy the right parts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `clipRect` and `translate` calls make sure we copy the right parts.
```

[^mostly-models]: Mostly. Some more advanced blending modes on the web are
difficult, or perhaps impossible, in real-world physics.

Skia supports this kind of transparency by setting
the "alpha" field on the parsed color:

``` {.python}
def parse_color(color):
    # ...
    elif color.startswith("#") and len(color) == 9:
        r = int(color[1:3], 16)
        g = int(color[3:5], 16)
        b = int(color[5:7], 16)
        a = int(color[7:9], 16)
        return skia.Color(r, g, b, a)
    # ...
```

Check that your browser renders dark-orange text for the example

> above. That shows that it is actually mixing the black color with the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
above. That shows that it's actually mixing the black color with the
```

existing orange color from the background.

However, there's another, subtle different way to create transparency
with CSS. Here, 50% transparency is applied to the whole element using
the `opacity` property:

<div style="font-size: 50px; padding: 15px; text-align: center;
    background: orange; color: black; opacity: .5">Test</div>
    
Now the opacity applies to both the background and the text, so the
background is now a little lighter. But note that the text
is now gray, not dark orange. The black and orange pixels are no
longer blended together!

That's because opacity introduces what CSS calls a [stacking

> context][stacking-context]. The details aren't important, but the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
context][stacking-context]. Most of the details aren't important right now, but the
```

order of operations is. In the first example, the black pixels were
first made transparent, then blended with the background. Thus, 50%
transparent black pixels were blending with orange pixels, resulting
in a dark-orange color. In the second example, the black pixels were
first blended with the background, then the result was made
transparent. Thus, fully black pixels replaced fully orange ones,
resulting just black pixels, which were later made 50% transparent.

> Applying effect in the proper order, as necessary to implement effects

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Applying blending in the proper order, as is necessary to implement effects
```

> like `opacity`, requires more careful handling of surfaces.

Reviewer: Maybe link to this blog post on the subject for more fun details?

https://dbaron.org/log/20130306-compositing-blending

[containing-block]: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Containing_block

Blending and stacking
=====================

> To handle the order of blending operations properly,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To handle the order of operations properly,
```

browsers apply blending not to individual shapes but to
a tree of surfaces. Conceptually, each shape is drawn to its own surface,
and then blended into its parent surface. Different structures of
intermediate surfaces create different visual effects.
Rastering a web page requires a
bottom-up traversal of this conceptual tree: to raster a surface you first need to raster

> its contents, including its child stacking contexts, and then the whole

Reviewer: ```suggestion
its contents, including its child surfaces, and then the whole
```

[containing-block]: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Containing_block

Blending and stacking
=====================

To handle the order of operations properly,
browsers apply blending not to individual shapes but to
a tree of surfaces. Conceptually, each shape is drawn to its own surface,
and then blended into its parent surface. Different structures of
intermediate surfaces create different visual effects.[^tree-blog]
Rastering a web page requires a
bottom-up traversal of this conceptual tree: to raster a surface you first need to raster
its contents, including its child surfaces, and then the whole
contents need to be blended together into the parent.[^stacking-context-disc]

[^tree-blog]: You can see a more detailed discussion of how the tree
    structure affects the final image, and how that impacted the CSS

>     specification, on [David Baron's blog](https://dbaron.org/log/20130306-compositing-blending).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    specifications, on [David Baron's blog](https://dbaron.org/log/20130306-compositing-blending).
```

        canvas.restore()
```

We can now wrap the drawing commands painted by an
element with `Opacity` to add transparency to the whole element.
I'm going to do this by adding a new `paint_effects` method to layout

> objects, which be passed a list of drawing commands to wrap:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
objects, which should be passed a list of drawing commands to wrap:
```

        return cmds
```

> I put the actual construction of the `Opacity` command to a new

Reviewer: ```suggestion
I put the actual construction of the `Opacity` command in a new
```

> global `paint_visual_effects` method (because other object types will need it

Reviewer: ```suggestion
global `paint_visual_effects` method (because other object types will also need it):
```

> also):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
